.TH TOXN "1" "2010\-07\-31" "BitTorrent Protocol Daemon 0.16" "User Commands"
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" adjust text to left margin only
.ad l
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" MAIN CONTENT
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.SH "NAME"
toxn \- BitTorrent Protocol Daemon
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B toxn
[\fB\-d\fR \fIdir\fR]
[\fB\-p\fR \fIport\fR]
[\fBOPTIONS\fR...] 
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Toxn is a utility for sharing files over the BitTorrent network protocol.  It runs in daemon mode, thus needing no controlling terminal or gui.  Instead, the daemon is controlled by \fBtxcli\fR, its control utility, or other programs capable of sending commands and queries on the control socket.
.PP
toxn consists of the following programs:
.RS 4
\fBtoxn\fR \- The bittorrent client.
.br
\fBtxcli\fR \- Command line interface to toxn.
.br
\fBtxinfo\fR \- Shows information from a torrent file.
.RE
.PP
All programs accept the \fB\-\-help\fR option.

.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
\fB\-d\fR \fIdir\fR
The path for the toxn directory.  Default is \fI$HOME/.toxn\fR.
.TP
\fB\-p\fR \fIn\fR, \fB\-\-port\fR \fIn\fR 
Listen at port \fIn\fR. Default is 6881.
.TP
\fB\-\-help\fR [\fImode\fR] 
Show this text or help for the specified mode.
.TP
.B \-4
Use IPv4. If given in conjunction with \fB\-6\fR, both versions are used.
.TP
.B \-6
Use IPv6. By default IPv4 is used.
Unfortunately enabling both IPv6 and IPv4 in toxn is less useful than it should be. The problem is that some sites have trackers for both versions and it's likely that the IPv6 one, which probably has less peers, will be used in favour of the IPv4 one.
.TP
.B \-\-bw\-in \fIn\fR
Limit incoming BitTorrent traffic to \fIn\fR kB/s.  Default is 0 which means unlimited.
.TP
.B \-\-bw\-out \fIn\fR
Limit outgoing BitTorrent traffic to \fIn\fR kB/s.  Default is 0 which means unlimited.
.TP
.B \-\-empty\-start
Start toxn without any active torrents.
.TP
.B \-\-ip \fIaddr\fR
Let the tracker distribute the given address instead of the one it sees toxn connect from.
.TP
.B \-\-ipcprot \fImode\fR
Set the protection mode of the command socket.  The mode is specified by an octal number. Default is 0600.
.TP
.B \-\-logfile \fIfile\fR
Where to put the logfile. By default it's put in the toxn dir.
.TP
.B \-\-logmask \fImask\fR
Bitfield to specify which data to record in the toxn log (dev info).
.TP
.B \-\-max\-peers \fIn\fR
Limit the amount of peers to \fIn\fR.
.TP
.B \-\-max\-uploads \fIn\fR
Controls the number of simultaneous uploads.  The possible values are:
.RS
\fIn\fR < \-1 : Choose \fIn\fR >= 2 based on \fB\-\-bw\-out\fR (default).
.br
\fIn\fR = \-1 : Upload to every interested peer.
.br
\fIn\fR =  0 : Dont't upload to anyone.
.br
\fIn\fR >  0 : Upload to at most n peers simultaneously.
.RE
.TP
.B \-\-no\-daemon
Keep the toxn process in the foregorund and log to std{out,err}.  This option is intended for debugging purposes.
.TP
.B \-\-prealloc \fIn\fR
Preallocate disk space in chunks of \fIn\fR kB. Default is 2048.  Note that \fIn\fR will be rounded up to the closest multiple of the torrent piece size. If \fIn\fR is zero no preallocation will be done.
.TP
.B \-\-numwant \fIn\fR
Specify the number of wanted peers 'numwant' tracker request parameter. Default is 50.
.SH "STARTING TOXN"
To start toxn with default settings you only need to run it. However, there are many useful options you may want to use. To see a full list run \fBtoxn \-\-help\fR. If you didn't specify otherwise,  toxn starts with the same set of active torrents as it had the last time it was shut down.
.PP
\fBbtdp\fR will store information and write its log in \fI$HOME/.toxn\fR. Therefore it needs to be able to write there during its execution. You can specify another directory via the \fB\-d\fR option or the \fI$TOXN_HOME\fR variable.
.PP
It is recommended to specifiy the maximum number of uploads. Bittorrent employs a tit for tat algorithm, so uploading at good rates allows for downloading.  Try to find a balance between uploads/outgoing bandwidth and the number of active torrents.
.PP
.B Note: 
You should only need one instance of toxn regardless of how many torrents you want to share.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
Start toxn with all options set to their default values.
.RS 4
.nf
.B $ toxn
.fi
.RE
.PP
Start toxn as above, but with torrent data in the directory /var/torrents
.RS 4
.nf
.B $ toxn \-d /var/torrents
.fi
.RE
.PP
Start toxn and make it listen on port 12345, limit outgoing bandwidth to 200kB/s, limit the number of peers to 40 and not start any torrents that were active the last time toxn was shut down.
.RS 4
.nf
.B $ toxn \-p 12345 \-\-bw\-out 200 \-\-max\-peers 40 \-\-empty\-start
.fi
.RE
.SH "TROUBLESHOOTING"
If \fBtoxn\fR has shut down for some unknown reason, check the logfile for possible clues.
.SH "BUGS"
Known bugs are listed at \fIhttp://github.com/toxn/toxn/issues\fR
.sp
Before submitting a bug report, please verify that you are running the latest version of toxn.
.SH "AUTHORS"
.sp
Current maintainers:
.sp
\- Marq Schneider <\fIqueueRAM@gmail.com\fR>
.sp
Past contributors:
.sp
\- Richard Nyberg <\fItoxn@murmeldjur.se\fR> 
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR \fBtxcli\fR(1)
.BR \fBtxinfo\fR(1)

